Enjoy the fun!
Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Terbjaville.
As important as any military detail of World War II, the military combat police providing
personal protection for those conducting the war.
And from time to time dealing with those soldiers who through their behavior might undermine
the unity of the mission.
Well Sergeant Tom Browning of Bryan was a member of one of the very first military combat police
battalions of the U.S. Army.
As a member of the 500 and 500 and 404th MPs he was quickly promoted.
PFC, then Corporal, then Sergeant, then First Sergeant.
And as a result of his duty was in December of 1944 awarded the Bronze Star Medal for
what his captain called Maritorious Service in connection with military operations against
an enemy of the United States in France.
Later, as a member of the 500 and 12th military police where he was discharged from, Sergeant
Browning had been attached to General George Patton's 3rd Army and pretty much followed
Patton the duration of the war.
Tom Browning, it is a pleasure to have you on the show of Veterans of the Valley.
Let's talk about your growing up.
You grew up in La Port and talk about how you got into the military service.
Initially, it was with the cavalry, right?
Yes, well I had been working around here there in Yarnight because a job for hard to find
and I was in Corpus Christi and run out of job, run out of money.
Here came a recruiting outpeed in the town and talked with him.
He bought me a cup of coffee.
We had quite a conversation.
I had been born in a small farm.
They had horses, they had to be fun.
And you know for a year or two it was fun.
Yes sir.
How do you thought I knew a lot about horses and I did add full eggs, tail, other things like
that.
But a lot of things I had to learn about horse.
And I find to learn some of those things.
And we had spent a couple years along the border.
Along about that time, several organizations along the border.
This was two pairs of 12th Calvary and this was at Fort Brown, Brownville.
And up the river about 100 miles was the second squadron of the 12th Calvary and that was
at Fort Ringo.
Well, the border was pretty well fortified along there.
Of course, no one was trying to get into the United States then because of any trouble.
Because if a job came open, there was about 300 people wanting their job.
Exactly.
And so border crossing was not a problem.
Anyway, we had only had several maneuvers out in West Texas, first one place in another.
And all of a sudden one day, you were eating a newspaper and all the news that was going
on.
The Japanese sank the USS Pan A in the Yankees River.
Oh, God, I don't want to go to war in the Calvary.
That type of war is old fashioned.
What am I doing here?
How contacted my dad and us as a contactee commanding officer telling him I'm needing on the
farm and I think I can get a discharge.
Well, he did and I got a dependency discharge.
Yes, sir.
But in doing so, I had joined regular army reserve.
Right.
Well, in 1941, they called me back in.
Back back into the same organization.
It was no longer in Port Brown.
They had moved out to El Paso to...
For Bliss?
Yes, sir.
And there was a lot of organizations around El Paso at that time.
Well, I looked around and said, hey, I still don't know.
I don't want in this Calvary.
So in war, checked around, there was motorized Calvary there.
I went over and talked with him.
Oh, no, said, uh, we're full up.
And said, you got good service before we're full up.
Well, I said, I need to do something.
I was doing a good war in this Calvary because here I am.
Right.
Well, I wrote a letter to Eligdon Field and got an answer back.
I said, well, if you've got a 90 IQ, we'll set you in transfer here.
Well, I had more than 90 IQ.
And first saw it and come to commanding.
Both of you are trying to get out of there.
Well, I think everybody does that matter.
He came and said, would you like to go over and form a military police outfit?
Right.
Well, give me the protectors.
Well, he told me about it.
Said it was first Calvary Division provisional military police company.
Okay.
Sound good.
So I went to it.
Well, he'd come, uh, Calvary men from everywhere.
Well, I said, bunch of men I'd been with as a soldier.
Uh-huh.
And, uh, we farm and add different types of training.
And this, that, and everyone owned for about 45 days.
And they broke us up.
Well, this didn't make sense.
And it's right back to the same organization we came out of.
First saw it and came to me and says, Brown and Don't draw equipment.
Are you being transferred?
Good.
Where am I going?
Fort Sam Houston.
So you went there and that was really the first contingent of MPs that formed Fort
Sam Houston at that time.
And you talked to me about the people that were recruited there, uh, were ages between
21 and 28.
And these were pretty sharp guys that had all applied to Officer County School, right?
Well, found out that, uh, in order to be in this organization, you had to have at
least 110 IQs.
Yes, sir.
Uh, which is not, uh, brilliant by any stretch of the imagination, but you're no dumb
bell either.
Right.
And, uh, so we looked and said, hey, uh, most of these guys are qualified for, uh,
OCS.
Well, a lot of them did.
Went off to OCS.
Uh-huh.
They made options.
Some of them came back to us.
Some of them went to other organizations.
And, uh, at the same time, well, uh, every place was hollering.
This is new organization's farm, combat military police, as they've been heard of before.
So they've wanted them.
Well, they had an opportunity to go to Iceland.
You were going to, you were going to be offered a promotion to go to Iceland.
I was going to go to Iceland.
What do you think of that?
Well, I, uh, having been born and reared in a country where the mean temperature was about
28 degrees.
Uh-huh.
I didn't want to go to Iceland.
Wonder why.
I think now, and I thought later that, uh, it would have been a good place for World
War II.
But I don't think I could have said the temperatures.
Haha.
Sergeant Browning, you were, uh, you were at Fort Sam Houston as a matter of fact on December
7, 1941 when Pearl Harbor was attacked and when the world changed.
Uh, talk about how it changed for you and sort of how you went from there and eventually
got overseas.
Well, they were forming several different combat military police battalions in because
they had specific jobs.
And they had never been formed before so they were organizing different ones to be sent
out.
Well, that's the reason for motions was so rapid and, uh, an entire company was sent
off and, uh, it formed this entire battalion.
And another one, uh, good, the contingent went off and formed the fact that I was all for
an opportunity to go out as a first sergeant of it.
But I turned it down because it was going to fort over, excuse me, fort over thought
of George.
Uh-huh.
And, uh, what I had heard about that was not good.
Right.
It was a desolate place.
Anyhow, uh, the day that I heard that, uh, the Japanese and bomb Pearl Harbor, uh,
I was the first sergeant and I'd been, uh, inviting these boys to, uh, I was the country
and I was married at the time and I'd make friends with them and invite them to come and
have it evening with me.
Well, being a young man and married at that time will send him out a day of bliss.
And, uh, so we, uh, didn't know anything about this until after they came and visited.
Right.
Well, the following day we were out on the Raffle Rage and we heard, uh, President Roosevelt
declared the act of war.
The day that would live in infamy is what he said.
Yes.
Let's, uh, let's move on.
January the 1st, 1943.
That was, uh, the day that you actually left Boston Harbor.
That day we left, uh, what Sam Houston to go to, uh, to Boston.
Boston.
And then you, uh, you went the, the route through the North Atlantic, uh, from Boston.
That was, that was some kind of a boat ride.
That was the most stretches by the, uh, I understand that's the most stretches body of water.
There is.
You were on the USS Elizabeth C. Stanton at the time.
Talk a little bit about it.
Everybody got sick by the time they, uh, they got to Scotland, right?
It was so, so rough that, uh, I said it was probably a, they used 90 percent of the
people aboard ship were sick.
And, uh, vomiting, it was something that was disagreeable even to think about.
Indeed.
That's what I'm seeing.
It was so rough that, uh, if you went to the Mass Hall, he, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,
the table may buckle up while you're sitting there.
Uh-huh.
Is that, uh, that rough?
Turns out that the Elizabeth C. Stanton was the, was the flagship of the convoy.
Yeah.
And you were the senior NCO on the, uh, on the, uh, on the Stanton.
And, uh, you eventually landed in Scotland, got onto a train, but you all really didn't
know where you were going.
What you were heading to, you knew that you were, uh, you were about to be involved in
war, though.
Yeah.
When you were in England, uh, when you were at war, it was any battle, but we were going
to be a part of it.
And that's all we knew at that time.
And we went to, uh, I believe it was called Peel Rehole.
How I'd got this name, I don't have any idea of what the name stood for.
Uh, I remember one of the, uh, uh, gentlemen there that met.
And, and, and, cabinet to visit church.
And they said, this church is four and some odd years old.
Is it all to have anything as old as you?
Well, if we did, it's built by the Indians because we weren't even discovered by them.
And, anyhow, uh, I'm going to, I'm going to show you a picture here as, uh, we're looking
at it on the screen.
And if you can, uh, you recognize that picture.
This is you, I believe, on the, on the right on this picture.
What can you tell us about that photograph?
That is two France.
Uh-huh.
And, uh, yes, that's me sitting there.
And.
With one of your, uh, one of your war buddies.
And in France.
Very good.
Oh.
That's where we had quite a battle.
And several things.
The bench was happening long about that time.
Uh-huh.
Those, uh, one thing is we did as, uh, combat police was that we had to be the last
disstand for army headquarters.
Right.
We had to maintain the entire, uh, MSR, the main supply route.
Um, things moved so fast there for a period of time that we actually had to have aircraft
to never gasoline to it.
Uh-huh.
Because those tanks were moving so fast that the truck couldn't keep up with us.
Well, uh, prisoners were here there and moved.
Right.
Here they moved.
Yes sir.
Yes.
No, the thing that's happening as well is in France.
Uh, a lot of these people who had been shot down.
The French underground were bringing them in turn over to us.
Uh-huh.
The first thing they had to do was to go to army headquarters to be interrogated, grilled,
and whatever, and then sent back.
And you had lots of respect for these people who had done a great job.
Indeed.
We're looking at another photograph now.
I'm going to show it to you.
This is you and two of your, uh, two of your army buddies sitting on a, on a Jeep.
Can you recall, uh, and let you take a closer look at it yourself also?
Can you, can you recall anything about that picture?
Yeah, I can.
Uh, I had a brother who was inducted into the army and my sister called and told me he
was coming through replacement depot for Sam Houston.
I knew all the first sawdons over there.
We won't talk to him when he comes in, send him over to me and show him what I got
here.
He came over and said, uh, uh, have I been here?
Oh, absolutely not.
No way.
You go and find your place.
I have control of this place now.
Um, well, he did.
He became a sergeant and, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, I've been to
went through, uh, uh, Italy and, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, right.
up to there. And I had written to him and told him I was being relieved of my duties. And
I had written to told him to meet me in Brenner Pass, get a pass and meet me in Brenner
Pass. Well, I shall be relieved of my duties. So I wasn't aware of what was taking place
transfers of troops coming on. Right. Well, I went to Brenner Pass and spent the day there
waiting for him. He didn't show up. I got back to the company and my mail said, we're
in a whole Germany. I told him my driver is 9 o'clock. I said, sleep fast. We're going
to whole Germany. Get up here 5 o'clock in the morning. We're going to whole Germany.
Yes sir. And that was my brother and my driver on that Jeep. You were the person on the
left on that last picture we saw. I want to picture wise if we can. Got another photograph
coming up right now. We'll just look at that. That's another photograph of you on the
left with some other of your buddies, young military police soldier there. I want to
talk about you being attached to the headquarters company of General Patton. The first time
that you came in contact with General Patton, you told me a story. You were a little bit surprised
at what he sounded like, right? Well, yes. I had worked all known out in the all fields
and anticipated well, I knew that these all drillers, all men are a big burly girl, Bruton
and so was Patton. They had a voice to match their appearance. When the third on was
farmed in Buehol in England, Patton assembled all the officers and in seals as the first three
grades and explained to him what he had planned the force to do. When he got up there
and speak and he had this pistol on his side and he looked so burped, and he had a sweet
swivel, almost a feminine type voice you've ever heard, and the tithering and tattering
him on because we all had suspected the same thing. And of course, he had quite a reputation.
I will have to admit that he carried off what he said he would do.
Indeed. We're looking at another photograph now that says you in the middle, just some other
photographs from your World War II experience. What was following Patton like? What are some
of your most vivid memories of being in the military combat police unit that was actually
attached directly to the headquarters company of General Patton? What are some of your
memories of him? Well, I'll have to admit I was in war, I knew I was in war, I knew
that there were people who was after me, I was after people also. I felt that what am I
doing here? Things are not as bad if you can see things happening and know what's happening
why can't you invade them? Okay, that's going to be my policy because I remember doing
that was in the second grade in high school that I remember reading something in the spelling
book. Said good, better, best, never let it rest till the good is better and the better
best. Well, that's the way I tried to make things when things got developed where it
looked like it was going to be bad. I would try to make it good and if I could make it
good, it would make better and that's where I lived, try to make it and that's fortunately,
I think I was successful in some respects because I had a wonderful company and they respected
me. The photograph that we're looking at now, I know you know the photograph, this is
General Eisenhower inspecting some of your troops and you are the military police standing
directly to the left behind General Eisenhower. What do you remember about how that meeting
came about? Well, it was quite a funny thing. Patent didn't want to be stopped, patent
going to go on to go on to Germany and going into Russia. This was something that was
quite everybody knew it. Well, we had gone up to the Elbriever and being right with Army
headquarters, there was a building there that had a large platform paid out in front of
it. I saw it fell up there that I hadn't seen this uniform, who that is. Of course, I had
seen all the uniforms that was basically in Allied forces and someone up and I introduced
myself to him and the American. He grabbed my hand, shook it and said, Ryski, he hugged
me on both sides. Well, I realized what we had done and so it is now. We had gone into
Russian territory and was not supposed to be there. So we were ordered back and Patent
said, I want you to get up 20 men with clean uniforms and we would have an Eisenhower's
coming and I want to put on an honor program for him. Well, I found 14 men with clean uniforms
and that was a difficult task. Right. And that's what that picture that we saw before.
We're looking at a picture right now, a much more recent picture. I think this was taking
just a year or so ago of the 61st reunion and you're cutting the cake. What were we looking
at there? What was that reunion? Well, we mentioned this other picture. One of the things
that happened to me was I now walked up to me and said, what cow-rout did you out of?
Well, I told him, true past 12 caliber, so. Well, we were so busy after that. My comic
manager didn't get to ask me about it. So he did ask me later after a reunion. Why? He
had asked me that. Well, I explained it to him then. But the caliber actually had formed
this organization. The first five or four military police battalion that had formed, the
contingent was taken out of the cavalry. Well, I was the only caliber one they could find.
It was still alive that knew anything about the formation of it. Well, they wanted all
this information. So they paid my way to put this Washington and I said, I can't go, I can't
see. And I had to use a walker. Had no problem. The son came and said, well dad, if you go, I'll
pay my way and go out there with you. Okay, it's fine. I'll go. As I call him, ask him
find me my walker. Oh no, we'll push you around the wheelchair. I'll never road the wheelchair
so much on my life. I bet that's right. We're running out of time, Sergeant Browning. I know that
your unit also was involved in the liberation of Berlin towards the end of World War II. And
we want to thank you for your service. I wish we had more time to talk about your remarkable
tour of duty. But most all, I salute you and thank you very much for your service. We appreciate
you being here. Thank you, Sergeant Browning. Oh, thank you. Tom Browning served more than four
years in the Army from February, 1941 to September, 1945. He supervised the work of some 518 soldiers
while serving in northern France, the Ardeans, Rheinland Normandy and Central Europe, a proud
resident of the Brasis Valley and a proud veteran of World War II. We salute Sergeant Tom Browning
and all veterans for their service. And we thank also our underwriter, First National Bank. And
please be sure to read more stories of veterans and Brasis Valley heroes each Sunday in the eagle.
For Sergeant Tom Browning, I'm Tom Turbivill. Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.